# Usage

Now that your Cookiebot plugin has been configured, let's see how we can use it.

The Cookiebot composable has two major functionalities: the <a href="https://www.cookiebot.com/en/developer/" target="_blank">consent banner</a> and the <a href="https://www.cookiebot.com/en/manual-implementation/" target="_blank">cookie declaration</a>. Here's how you can use them:

::alert{type="info"}
Using <a href="https://i18n.nuxtjs.org/" target="_blank">nuxt-i18n</a>? The locale will be used to set the culture prop for your Cookiebot implementation. See [advanced usage](/nuxt/advanced-usage).
::

## Consent Banner

::alert{type="info"}
The consent banner will be triggered by default. Want to use stateful logic to add to the banner or trigger it manually? <br />
Use the composable to trigger the consent banner instead and pass your options. <br /><br />
In this case you'll need to disable the auto consent banner in the Nuxt configuration by setting `autoConsentBanner` to `false`.
::

The consent banner is the popup that appears when (first) visiting the site. It will prompt the visiter to either accept or reject cookies of choice. Nuxt auto-imports the composable for you, so you don't have to import it explicitly.

To add the consent banner to your app with the composable, simply do:

::code-group
```ts [src/app.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
	const { consentBanner } = useCookiebot({
		// Add your custom options here
	});

	onMounted(() => {
		consentBanner();
	});
</script>

<template>
	<!-- templating here -->
</template>
```
```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ["@ambitiondev/nuxt-cookiebot"],
  cookiebot: {
	autoConsentBanner: false,
    cookieBotId: 'COOKIEBOT_ID_HERE',
  },
});
```
::

## Cookie declaration

The cookie declaration generates your configured policy from the Cookiebot control center, as well as a possibility for visitors to adjust their cookie preferences. Nuxt auto-imports the composable for you, so you don't have to import it explicitly.

It can be used as follows:

::code-group
```ts [src/app.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
	const cookieDeclarationRef = ref<HTMLElement | null>(null);

	const { cookieDeclaration } = useCookiebot();

	onMounted(() => {
		cookieDeclaration(cookieDeclarationRef);
	});
</script>

<template>
	<div ref="cookieDeclarationRef" />
</template>

```
::
